Comment[GEAAccession]	E-GEAD-1043
MAGE-TAB Version	1.1
Investigation Title	Single-cell RNA transcriptomic analysis of laryngeal epithelial cells of guinea pigs
Experiment Description	Laryngeal epithelial cells were isolated from guinea pigs (two biological replicates) and were analyzed using 10x Genomics scRNA-seq with targeted sequencing of CALHM1 and CALHM3 gene expression.
Experimental Design	cell type comparison design	replicate design
Experimental Factor Name	target gene
Experimental Factor Type	target gene
Person Last Name	Hayatsu
Person First Name	Norihito
Person Affiliation	Laboratory for Comprehensive Genomic Analysis  Center for Integrative Medical Sciences, RIKEN
Person Roles	submitter
Public Release Date	2025-04-03
Protocol Name	P-GEAD-4624	P-GEAD-4625	P-GEAD-4626	P-GEAD-4627	P-GEAD-4628
Protocol Type	sample collection protocol	nucleic acid extraction protocol	nucleic acid library construction protocol	nucleic acid sequencing protocol	normalization data transformation protocol
Protocol Description	The larynx was dissected out, and its interior surface was exposed by a cut to the dorsal side. The laryngeal epithelium spanning from the supraglottis to subglottis epithelium was enzymatically peeled off with a freshly prepared enzyme mixture (DNase I; Dispase II; diluted in Tyrode's solution) injected underneath the epithelium. The peeled epithelium was incubated in papain solution. The tissue was then triturated into single cells with a glass capillary pipette. Isolated cells were washed and resuspended in PBS supplemented with 0.4% w/v BSA.	Library was performed according to the manufacturer's instructions (Chromium GEM-X Single Cell 3' Reagent Kits v4, 10x Genomics). Briefly, laryngeal epithelial cells were resuspended in the master mix and loaded together with partitioning oil and gel beads into the chip to generate the gel bead-in-emulsion (GEM). The poly-A RNA from the cell lysate contained in every single GEM was retrotranscripted to cDNA, which contains an Ilumina R1 primer sequence, Unique Molecular Identifier (UMI) and the 10x Barcode.	The pooled barcoded cDNA was then cleaned up with Silane DynaBeads, amplified by PCR and the apropiated sized fragments were selected with SPRIselect reagent for subsequent library construction. During the library construction Ilumina R2 primer sequence, paired-end constructs with P5 and P7 sequences and a sample index were added. In addition, to perform target enrichment of CALHM1 and CALHM3 gene expression, we developed a custom targeted strategy employing 3-4 rounds of linear amplification and PCR in a nested manner. Briefly, in target enrichment: 20 cycles of linear amplification with a single primer that binds to a specific target sequence in the cDNA library allow selective enrichment of a target of interest; subsequently, 3 cycles of PCR with a universal Read1 primer and a gene-specific primer amplify double-stranded DNAs. For further specific and efficient enrichment, 2-3 additional rounds of linear amplifications and PCRs were carried out using nested gene-specific primers. The amplified cDNA products were fragmented using Chromium GEM-X Single Cell 3' Reagent Kits v4 (10x Genomics) and were selected with SPRIselect reagent for subsequent library construction. During the library construction Ilumina R2 primer sequence, paired-end constructs with P5 and P7 sequences and a sample index were added.	The pooled barcoded cDNA was then cleaned up with Silane DynaBeads, amplified by PCR and the apropiated sized fragments were selected with SPRIselect reagent for subsequent library construction. During the library construction Ilumina R2 primer sequence, paired-end constructs with P5 and P7 sequences and a sample index were added. In addition, to perform target enrichment of CALHM1 and CALHM3 gene expression, we developed a custom targeted strategy employing 3-4 rounds of linear amplification and PCR in a nested manner. The amplified cDNA products were fragmented using Chromium GEM-X Single Cell 3' Reagent Kits v4 (10x Genomics) and were selected with SPRIselect reagent for subsequent library construction. During the library construction Ilumina R2 primer sequence, paired-end constructs with P5 and P7 sequences and a sample index were added.	The demultiplexing, barcoded processing, genome counting were made using Cell Ranger software (v8.0.1) with the genome assembly of Cavia porcellus mCavPor4.1 and the mitochondrial genome (NC_000884.1).
SDRF File	E-GEAD-1043.sdrf.txt
Comment[AEExperimentType]	RNA-seq of coding RNA
Comment[BioProject]	PRJDB20247
Comment[Last Update Date]	2025-04-03
